README.md, before:

# CleanArchitectureSample
A sample for best practices and experimenting with Clean Architecture and CQRS


## Structure

Root
- source : Source files for the solution containing the solutions and all related projects
- tests : All test projects for the solution

Source
- Presentation : All of the client facing application projects (console, web, api)
- Core : All of the application and domain logic
- Infrastructure : All of the low level services (persistence, messaging, authentication)

Tests
- Architecture Tests : Ensures the project dependencies are respected as expected
- Integration Tests : Higher level tests for interdependent projects
- Unit Tests : Low level code tests

## Lessons
These lessons assume you start with a pre-existing project using CQRS and an anemic model.  Each lesson refactors the previous iteration starting with the initial anemic solution.

Lesson List
-----------
1. Project Setup
2. Architecture Tests
3. DDD
4. Entity
5. Validation
6. Value Objects
7. Aggregate Root
8. Domain Event
9. Outbox
10. Email Uniqueness
11. CQRS
12. MediatR Validation
13. Polly Outbox Retry
14. Idempotent Handlers
15. Unit Test CQRS
16. Unit Test Entity Framework
17. Smart Enums
18. Functional Programming

### Project Setup

Source Detail
- Core Layer
-- Application
--- Abstractions
--- Behaviors
--- Contracts
--- Exceptions
--- Features
-- Domain
--- Entities
--- Events
--- Exceptions
--- Shared
--- ValueObject
-Infrastructure
-- Data
-- Messaging
- Presenation
-- Api
--- Controllers
--- Middleware

### Architecture Tests

Architecture tests allow you to perform higher level checks on your solution.  With architecture tests, you can check dependencies to ensure projects are referring to to the right projects/packages.  This can flag unexpected issues if your dependencies change and help to avoid circular references.

Steps
1. Create XUnit Test
2. Add NetArchTest.Rules
3. Add Assembly reference (empty class) to all projects
4. Test each project for expected dependencies
5. Test each project for unexpected dependencies

### Domain Driven Design Refactoring

Refactoring starts with a working anemic model to demonstrate steps to change to a more DDD approach.  The idea is that you start with a quick and dirty anemic model and then refactor the system with DDD techniques to improve the system.  

Steps
1. Create constructors in entities for exepected values
2. Move complex construction to static Create methods
3. Make constructors private to force use of Create method (why create versus constructor?)
4. Make property setters private
5. Move logic to methods in entity (i.e. SendInvitation)
6. Change lists to readonly

### Entity Creation
This lesson comes after introducing the prebuilt solution that already contains the BaseEntity.  The lesson rewinds the clock and isolates the initial entity creation.

Steps
1. Add unique identifier
2. Override Equals
3. Override GetHashCode (use multiple of prime number)
4. Add IEquatable
5. Entities inherit from BaseEntity

### Entity Validation

At this stage, we talk about validation in terms of our strategy for handling invalid state.  Should we throw an exception if there is a problem or return a result.  Exceptions are easy to debug but hard in production.  Results are hard to debug but easy in production.

Strategies
1. Use Exceptions:  Easier debugging with stacktrace
2. Use Results: More expressive, house errors in catelog, self documenting, but does not halt execution making debugging more difficult

#### Exception Strategy

Exceptions can be easier for debugging because the execution will stop at the exception and you will have a stack trace.  This makes debugging easy because you always know where the failure happened immediately.  The downside is you need a try/catch at any point where you call the procedure to avoid creating invalid states and crashing the program.

Steps
1. Create a base DomainException to identify Domain Exceptions
2. Create Exceptions inheriting from Domain Exceptions
3. Throw Exceptions defensively where ever domain state is theatened

#### Results Strategy

Results allow you to handle conditions where returning an object may be optional and result in success or failure.  For example, if you search for an entity in the database, it is possible that you retrieve an object or the object is not found.  Results gives you a way to return a null object and check for success in the calling method.  Further, you can return meaningful error statements that describe what happened.  
The downside is returning a Result type is more difficult to debug.  This strategy does not stop execution of the program while debugging.  You need to set breakpoints to track failures and log errors.  Debugging would involve analyzing the logs to determine where the error took place and then setting breakpoints to pause execution in order to analyze the state of the system.  

Steps
1. Create base Error
2. Create base Result
3. Create base Result<T>
4. Change return types that reference entities to Result<Entity> types
5. Replace Exceptions thrown to Result type of Failure with associated Error
6. Create Errors static class to house all Error types

### Primitive Obsession and Value Object

Value objects replace primitives as properties on entities.  This allows you to enforce rules that preserve proper state that are not available for the primitive objects.  For example, you may want to ensure that a username is never more than 50 characters.  

Steps
1. Create base ValueObject
2. Replace entity property types with specific value types inheriting from ValueObject
3. Fix references to former properties to create new value objects

### Aggregate Root

An aggregate root is meant for entities that aggregate multiple other entities together.  The purpose is to manage all related entities as one single transaction rather than breaking them out separately.  For example, if a blog post item contains one or more tags, it is better to load and save them all at once rather than independently.   If the tag fails, then the post will be in an invalid state.  If you handle them all as one transaction, then you can manage invalid states.  

Steps
1. Create a new AggregateRoot base class inheriting from Entity simply as an empty class
2. Change reference root class for aggregates
3. Remove ability to retrieve subordinate entities directly (fetch and save as one whole not independently)
!!! This comes before explaining CQRS or setting up the data layer so a little hard to follow

Considerations
- Need functioning data layer

### Domain Events

Domain events allow you to separate the logic of processing a primary action from all the secondary actions that should be triggered after the primary completes.  For example, you may want to send an email notification whenever a new member is added to the system.  The primary action would be to add the member.  The email notification should follow once the member is successfully added.  

Steps
1. Add IDomainEvent
2. Add RaiseDomainEvent method to aggregate base
3. Use RaiseDomainEvent when events happen in your aggregate entity
4. Add MediatR to domain
5. Add INotification to IDomainEvents
6. Add event handler to application

Considerations:  
- Need to separate services in handlers (i.e. email service depends on repository to pull posts - what if the database is down)
- Need outbox pattern

### Data Layer Bonus Round

Added a basic data layer using entity framework and an in memory database.  

Steps
1. Add any missing IRepositories for entities in the domain layer
2. Add anemic models to data for each entity
3. Add mapping from entity to data and from data to entity
4. Add repositories for each entity (Question:  Only added aggregates.  Should it include all entities?)
5. Add Data Exceptions

### Outbox Pattern

The outbox pattern is used to make sure events are processed and not lost.  The pattern takes in events and holds them until they can be successfully processed.

When an action completes on an aggregate, it should raise an event.  An background job will periodically scan for events, pull them from the aggregate, store them to the datastore, handle them, and marked them complete.  

Steps
1. Add an OutboxMessage to persistence to store events to the database
2. Add methods to Get and Clear the events from the aggregate root
3. Create an interceptor to get the events from the aggregate, clear the events from the aggregate, and store them to the database.
4. Wire up the interceptor in the dbContext initialization
5. Add Quartz package for background jobs (job scheduler) to Infrastructure layer
6. Add Outbox Job processing
7. Need to wrap in try/catch for when job failures occur
8. Add Quartz.Extensions.DependencyInjection to app
9. Add Quartz Startup

TODO:  
- Handle null event in job
- Add try/catch for job failures

### BONUS:  Added CQRS for members to allow for Email uniqueness test


### Email uniqueness test


Steps
1. 


## Credit
Milan Jovanovic
Clean Architecture & DDD Series
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYpjLpq5ZDGstQ5afRz-34o_0dexr1RGa

Commit message:

Added Username and Email uniqueness check

README.md, after:

# CleanArchitectureSample
A sample for best practices and experimenting with Clean Architecture and CQRS


## Structure

Root
- source : Source files for the solution containing the solutions and all related projects
- tests : All test projects for the solution

Source
- Presentation : All of the client facing application projects (console, web, api)
- Core : All of the application and domain logic
- Infrastructure : All of the low level services (persistence, messaging, authentication)

Tests
- Architecture Tests : Ensures the project dependencies are respected as expected
- Integration Tests : Higher level tests for interdependent projects
- Unit Tests : Low level code tests

## Lessons
These lessons assume you start with a pre-existing project using CQRS and an anemic model.  Each lesson refactors the previous iteration starting with the initial anemic solution.

Lesson List
-----------
1. Project Setup
2. Architecture Tests
3. DDD
4. Entity
5. Validation
6. Value Objects
7. Aggregate Root
8. Domain Event
9. Outbox
10. Email Uniqueness
11. CQRS
12. MediatR Validation
13. Polly Outbox Retry
14. Idempotent Handlers
15. Unit Test CQRS
16. Unit Test Entity Framework
17. Smart Enums
18. Functional Programming

### Project Setup

Source Detail
- Core Layer
-- Application
--- Abstractions
--- Behaviors
--- Contracts
--- Exceptions
--- Features
-- Domain
--- Entities
--- Events
--- Exceptions
--- Shared
--- ValueObject
-Infrastructure
-- Data
-- Messaging
- Presenation
-- Api
--- Controllers
--- Middleware

### Architecture Tests

Architecture tests allow you to perform higher level checks on your solution.  With architecture tests, you can check dependencies to ensure projects are referring to to the right projects/packages.  This can flag unexpected issues if your dependencies change and help to avoid circular references.

Steps
1. Create XUnit Test
2. Add NetArchTest.Rules
3. Add Assembly reference (empty class) to all projects
4. Test each project for expected dependencies
5. Test each project for unexpected dependencies

### Domain Driven Design Refactoring

Refactoring starts with a working anemic model to demonstrate steps to change to a more DDD approach.  The idea is that you start with a quick and dirty anemic model and then refactor the system with DDD techniques to improve the system.  

Steps
1. Create constructors in entities for exepected values
2. Move complex construction to static Create methods
3. Make constructors private to force use of Create method (why create versus constructor?)
4. Make property setters private
5. Move logic to methods in entity (i.e. SendInvitation)
6. Change lists to readonly

### Entity Creation
This lesson comes after introducing the prebuilt solution that already contains the BaseEntity.  The lesson rewinds the clock and isolates the initial entity creation.

Steps
1. Add unique identifier
2. Override Equals
3. Override GetHashCode (use multiple of prime number)
4. Add IEquatable
5. Entities inherit from BaseEntity

### Entity Validation

At this stage, we talk about validation in terms of our strategy for handling invalid state.  Should we throw an exception if there is a problem or return a result.  Exceptions are easy to debug but hard in production.  Results are hard to debug but easy in production.

Strategies
1. Use Exceptions:  Easier debugging with stacktrace
2. Use Results: More expressive, house errors in catelog, self documenting, but does not halt execution making debugging more difficult

#### Exception Strategy

Exceptions can be easier for debugging because the execution will stop at the exception and you will have a stack trace.  This makes debugging easy because you always know where the failure happened immediately.  The downside is you need a try/catch at any point where you call the procedure to avoid creating invalid states and crashing the program.

Steps
1. Create a base DomainException to identify Domain Exceptions
2. Create Exceptions inheriting from Domain Exceptions
3. Throw Exceptions defensively where ever domain state is theatened

#### Results Strategy

Results allow you to handle conditions where returning an object may be optional and result in success or failure.  For example, if you search for an entity in the database, it is possible that you retrieve an object or the object is not found.  Results gives you a way to return a null object and check for success in the calling method.  Further, you can return meaningful error statements that describe what happened.  
The downside is returning a Result type is more difficult to debug.  This strategy does not stop execution of the program while debugging.  You need to set breakpoints to track failures and log errors.  Debugging would involve analyzing the logs to determine where the error took place and then setting breakpoints to pause execution in order to analyze the state of the system.  

Steps
1. Create base Error
2. Create base Result
3. Create base Result<T>
4. Change return types that reference entities to Result<Entity> types
5. Replace Exceptions thrown to Result type of Failure with associated Error
6. Create Errors static class to house all Error types

### Primitive Obsession and Value Object

Value objects replace primitives as properties on entities.  This allows you to enforce rules that preserve proper state that are not available for the primitive objects.  For example, you may want to ensure that a username is never more than 50 characters.  

Steps
1. Create base ValueObject
2. Replace entity property types with specific value types inheriting from ValueObject
3. Fix references to former properties to create new value objects

### Aggregate Root

An aggregate root is meant for entities that aggregate multiple other entities together.  The purpose is to manage all related entities as one single transaction rather than breaking them out separately.  For example, if a blog post item contains one or more tags, it is better to load and save them all at once rather than independently.   If the tag fails, then the post will be in an invalid state.  If you handle them all as one transaction, then you can manage invalid states.  

Steps
1. Create a new AggregateRoot base class inheriting from Entity simply as an empty class
2. Change reference root class for aggregates
3. Remove ability to retrieve subordinate entities directly (fetch and save as one whole not independently)
!!! This comes before explaining CQRS or setting up the data layer so a little hard to follow

Considerations
- Need functioning data layer

### Domain Events

Domain events allow you to separate the logic of processing a primary action from all the secondary actions that should be triggered after the primary completes.  For example, you may want to send an email notification whenever a new member is added to the system.  The primary action would be to add the member.  The email notification should follow once the member is successfully added.  

Steps
1. Add IDomainEvent
2. Add RaiseDomainEvent method to aggregate base
3. Use RaiseDomainEvent when events happen in your aggregate entity
4. Add MediatR to domain
5. Add INotification to IDomainEvents
6. Add event handler to application

Considerations:  
- Need to separate services in handlers (i.e. email service depends on repository to pull posts - what if the database is down)
- Need outbox pattern

### Data Layer Bonus Round

Added a basic data layer using entity framework and an in memory database.  

Steps
1. Add any missing IRepositories for entities in the domain layer
2. Add anemic models to data for each entity
3. Add mapping from entity to data and from data to entity
4. Add repositories for each entity (Question:  Only added aggregates.  Should it include all entities?)
5. Add Data Exceptions

### Outbox Pattern

The outbox pattern is used to make sure events are processed and not lost.  The pattern takes in events and holds them until they can be successfully processed.

When an action completes on an aggregate, it should raise an event.  An background job will periodically scan for events, pull them from the aggregate, store them to the datastore, handle them, and marked them complete.  

Steps
1. Add an OutboxMessage to persistence to store events to the database
2. Add methods to Get and Clear the events from the aggregate root
3. Create an interceptor to get the events from the aggregate, clear the events from the aggregate, and store them to the database.
4. Wire up the interceptor in the dbContext initialization
5. Add Quartz package for background jobs (job scheduler) to Infrastructure layer
6. Add Outbox Job processing
7. Need to wrap in try/catch for when job failures occur
8. Add Quartz.Extensions.DependencyInjection to app
9. Add Quartz Startup

TODO:  
- Handle null event in job
- Add try/catch for job failures

### BONUS:  Added CQRS for members to allow for Email uniqueness test


### Email uniqueness test


Strategies
1. Check for uniqueness in the create handler
	a. Pros:  Simple solution where repository and entity are available
	b. Cons:  Need to remember to do the check where ever you access.
2. Check for uniqueness in the entity
	a. Pros:  Single entry point for creation will always check without needing to remember
	b. Cons:  Requires passing the repository to the entity (not good form)
3. Check for uniqueness in the hanlder and pass result to the entity
	a. Pros:  Keeps it simple without mixing repo/entity
	b. Cons:  Need to remember to do the uniqueness check and pass result to entity, easily bypassed and forgotten
4. Check in Repo
	a. Pros:  Avoids passing dependencies, cleaner
	b. Cons:  Need to remember to check update and other methods, requires try/catch or handling above

Steps



## Credit
Milan Jovanovic
Clean Architecture & DDD Series
https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLYpjLpq5ZDGstQ5afRz-34o_0dexr1RGa
